Superhero and comic-book fatigue is a real thing. There were 22 Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) films before Avengers: Endgame hit theaters. Endgame made about $2.8 billion internationally and brought the initial phase of the MCU to a satisfying and thoughtful close. Since then, however, Marvel comic-book movies have been less successful monetarily and less celebrated critically. Some of that stems from Marvel (and its hired filmmakers) not being able to cover much new ground thematically or storywise. And some stems from the fact that the audience is just a little tired of more superhero movies. That is why–on a small scale–Spider-Man: Brand New Day is a welcome breath of fresh air. It manages to ground its story in real emotion and allow characters’ motives to overrule spectacle for the majority of its running time. Though it still sometimes falls into familiar comic-book traps and tropes, it is an effective time at the movies.

The story picks up where No Way Home left off, with Peter (Tom Holland) no longer having a relationship with his friends and being left to fight criminals with no one to support him. This causes loneliness and isolation, as one might expect. Peter also deals with some unexpected physical changes, which allows the movie to explore some interesting themes about mental and physical health.

	The performances in the Tom Holland Spider-Man series have always been quite good. That continues in Brand New Day. Tom Holland shows more understated levels as Peter Parker deals with watching the lives of his former girlfriend MJ (Zendaya) and his former best friend and “guy in the chair” Ned (Jacob Batalon), who no longer know who he is. He cogently anchors the movie, resisting the urge to “phone it in” in his fourth Spider-Man adventure. Zendaya and Batalon also feast on the new opportunity to show what their characters' real lives would look like without being connected to Spider-Man.

	Though Brand New Day does feature appearances by some other Marvel superheroes, it still succeeds in not feeling like a product that had studio-mandated cameos and tangents. There is logic in the screenplay for every one of them showing up, and they all affect the story in meaningful ways. Florence Pugh, Mark Ruffalo, and Jon Bernthal are all fantastic in these roles, seizing moments big and small and staying true to their characters.

	The bottom line is that Brand New Day grounds its superhero shenanigans in well-earned emotion and realistic consequences. There is still humor, which lacks contrivance. There are multiple occasions that elicit surprising dismay, as they feel less like they come from a friendly comic-book construction and more like they come from ill-advised human decisions. And, ultimately, the movie earns goodwill from its viewers by caring about the characters instead of forcing them through a hamster wheel of fanboy-mandated material. 
