	Biopics often fall into traps. Sometimes, they want to include so much about the subject of a the film that they move too quickly, glossing over much and settling for breadth over quality. Other times, they completely leave out essential parts of the subject’s life because they just don’t have the time to add everything. Still other times, there is a hollowness to the proceedings because the actors and writers simply cannot do justice to the scope or size of the woman they are trying to sum up. This absolutely does not make every biopic ineffective, it just makes creating a forceful one a difficult prospect. This is what makes *Tony*, the film about Anthony Bourdain, directed by Matt Johnson, so captivating. The movie focuses on just the 1975 summer months when the 19-year-old Bourdain travels to Provincetown, Massachusetts to chase after a girl. It manages to say much about being human and growing up in very little time. *Tony* is engrossing, thoughtful, and extremely well acted and manages to teach its audience many things about Bourdain while still leaving the remainder of his life completely untouched.

	First off, the script is a revelation, managing to skirt formula even when it takes steps that seem to telegraph where it is going. Though there is a “mentor figure” and a romantic side plot, Johnson and his three other screenplay collaborators do a deft job of handling those seemingly conventional ideas with depth and insight. They also underline the relevance of Bourdain’s experiences without resorting to characters parroting the themes to the audience in stilted dialogue. A huge strength of the script is its lack of arrogance. Though Bourdain is often an appealing and sympathetic figure, he is also humorously misguided, as 19-year-olds often are. The writers are content to allow him to reflect earnest human experience until very late in the film. Treating Bourdain like a perfect rebel or a bulletproof hero would have built up a mythos, but would have rung untrue. Seeing this man in a clear way allows the themes to burrow themselves into the viewers’ hearts.

The acting in *Tony* is also subtle and sharp. Dominic Sessa plays the college-age Bourdain and avoids obvious pitfalls in playing a character who is an arrogant jackass who expects the cards to always fall in his favor. The script provides reasoning for why he is the way he is, but Sessa imbues him with realism and charm and makes it hard not to root for him, even when he makes questionable choices. Antonio Banderas is wonderful as Bourdain’s quasi-mentor José Vatel (usually called “Chef”). He uses his face exquisitely in a quiet performance, which only increases in power as the movie progresses. Emilia Jones is perhaps not given enough to do, but she seizes the opportunities presented to her, leaving a strong impression when she could easily have faded into the background. Leo Woodall, who has previously been wonderful in The White Lotus, One Day, and Tuner, continues to show what an impressive actor he is. Here, he is often a bad influence over Bourdain, but his line delivery and presence make him a charismatic centerpoint every time he is onscreen. These performers elevate the effective script with aplomb.

	In short, if you have a chance to see *Tony*, I highly recommend it. It says a lot about figuring life out and not following a preordained path without ever hitting the audience over the head. Its quiet conclusion is much more affecting than many emotional, overwrought Hollywood endings. Everyone makes massive mistakes before they ever find their path and watching Anthony Bourdain commit a lot of errors will resonate with many viewers, both those that have found their life’s stability and those still navigating life’s pitfalls.
